docs/features.md, before:

# Features

Below are the main features of `cdir`:

## :material-check-bold: Directory history

Every time you use `cd` to change directories, `cdir` automatically saves the directory and timestamp.

## :material-check-bold: Fast navigation UI

Open the UI with the `c` command. Use arrow keys and text filtering to select a previously visited directory, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to jump there instantly.

## :material-check-bold: Shortcuts

Assign names and optional descriptions to your favorite directories.
Return to them quickly from the UI or from the command line.

## :material-check-bold: Search

In the UI, enter text to filter and find any previously visited directory or shortcut.
If the default search is not enough, you can use fuzzy search.

## :material-check-bold: Multi-shell support

Works with both `zsh` and `bash`. More shells may be supported in the future.

## :material-check-bold: Import shortcuts

Define your shortcuts in a YAML file and import them on any computer for easy setup.

## :material-check-bold: Color themes

Choose from several built-in color themes, or customize theme colors to match your preferences.
You can also create your own theme from scratch.

## :material-check-bold: Prompt integration

Use `cdir` to display your current working directory in your shell prompt, with shortcuts and custom formatting.

## :material-check-bold: Cross-platform

`cdir` works on both Linux and macOS.

Commit message:

Add smart recommendation to the path history list

docs/features.md, after:

# Features

Below are the main features of `cdir`:

## :material-check-bold: Directory history

Every time you use `cd` to change directories, `cdir` automatically saves the directory and timestamp.

## :material-check-bold: Fast navigation UI

Open the UI with the `c` command. Use arrow keys and text filtering to select a previously visited directory, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to jump there instantly.

## :material-check-bold: Shortcuts

Assign names and optional descriptions to your favorite directories.
Return to them quickly from the UI or from the command line.

## :material-check-bold: Search

In the UI, enter text to filter and find any previously visited directory or shortcut.
If the default search is not enough, you can use fuzzy search.

## :material-check-bold: Smart suggestions (experimental)

When opening the UI, `cdir` can suggsts directories based on your current directory, recent activity, and frequency of visits.

This feature is experimental.
It is disabled by default but can be activated in the configuration file.

## :material-check-bold: Multi-shell support

Works with both `zsh` and `bash`. More shells may be supported in the future.

## :material-check-bold: Import shortcuts

Define your shortcuts in a YAML file and import them on any computer for easy setup.

## :material-check-bold: Color themes

Choose from several built-in color themes, or customize theme colors to match your preferences.
You can also create your own theme from scratch.

## :material-check-bold: Prompt integration

Use `cdir` to display your current working directory in your shell prompt, with shortcuts and custom formatting.

## :material-check-bold: Cross-platform

`cdir` works on both Linux and macOS.
